12 Feb 2022 - Alert status: CRITICAL
Critical vulnerability identified in Apple iOS and macOS
A Remote Code Execution vulnerability has been identified in certain versions
of Apple WebKit, affecting iOS and macOS devices. Affected users of these
devices should update their devices as soon as possible.
11 Feb 2022 - Alert status: HIGH
Critical vulnerability present in SAP Internet Communication Manager
A vulnerability has been identified in SAP Internet Communication Manager
(ICM), a component of many SAP products, which may allow full system takeover.
Affected organisations should apply the available security update.
10 Feb 2022
2021 Trends Show Increased Globalized Threat of Ransomware
This joint Cybersecurity Advisory—authored by cybersecurity authorities in
the United States, Australia, and the United Kingdom—provides observed
behaviors and trends as well as mitigation recommendations to help network
defenders reduce their risk of compromise by ransomware.
10 Feb 2022 - Alert status: MEDIUM
Increased Global Ransomware Threats
In 2021, cybersecurity authorities in the United States, Australia, and the
United Kingdom observed an increase in sophisticated, high-impact ransomware
incidents against critical infrastructure organizations globally
04 Feb 2022 - Alert status: HIGH
Remote code execution vulnerability present in Samba versions prior to 4.13.17
A vulnerability (CVE-2021-44142) has been identified in Samba versions prior to
4.13.17. Exploitation of this vulnerability could allow a malicious cyber actor
to perform privileged remote code execution. Affected Australian organisations
should apply the available patch, including affected software vendors.
19 Jan 2022 - Alert status: HIGH
Remote code execution vulnerability present in SonicWall SMA 100 series
appliances
A vulnerability (CVE-2021-20038) has been identified in SonicWall SMA 100
series appliances. Exploitation of this vulnerability could allow an
unauthenticated malicious cyber actor to perform remote code execution.
Affected Australian organisations should apply the available patch.
19 Jan 2022 - Alert status: MEDIUM
Phone and email scammers impersonating the ACSC
The Australian government will NEVER phone you to request access to your
computer, or request you to purchase cryptocurrencies or gift cards. If you
receive a suspicious phone call, take the caller's details, hang up and contact
the company they claim to represent via official communication channels listed
on their website. Never call a number provided by the scammer.
29 Dec 2021
2021-007: Log4j vulnerability – advice and mitigations
On 10 December 2021, ACSC released an alert relating to a serious vulnerability
in versions of the Log4j Java logging library. Malicious cyber actors are using
this vulnerability to target and compromise systems globally and in Australia.
The ACSC is working with a significant number of victims and affected vendors
across all sectors of the economy.
23 Dec 2021 - Alert status: HIGH
Use of Log4j vulnerabilities in ransomware activity
The ACSC expects an increase in ransomware activity using Log4j as an exploit
vector. Malicious actors may take advantage of trivial exploits to impact
Australian organisations.
23 Dec 2021
Mitigating Log4Shell and Other Log4j-Related Vulnerabilities
Malicious cyber actors are actively scanning networks to potentially exploit
Log4Shell, CVE-2021-45046, and CVE-2021-45105 in vulnerable systems. According
to public reporting, Log4Shell and CVE-2021-45046 are being actively exploited.
This joint Cybersecurity Advisory is to provide mitigation guidance on
addressing vulnerabilities.
21 Dec 2021 - Alert status: CRITICAL
Critical remote code execution vulnerability found in the Log4j library
A vulnerability (CVE-2021-44228) exists in certain versions of the Log4j
library. A malicious cyber actor could exploit this vulnerability to execute
arbitrary code. Australian organisations should apply latest patches
immediately where Log4j is known to be used.
10 Dec 2021
Ransomware Profile: Conti
Conti is a ransomware variant first observed in early 2020, used by
cybercriminals to conduct ransomware attacks against multiple sectors and
organisations worldwide, including Australia. Conti is offered as a Ransomware-
as-a-Service (RaaS), enabling affiliates to utilise it as desired, provided
that a percentage of the ransom payment is shared with the Conti operators as
commission. This product provides information related to Conti’s background,
threat activity, and mitigation advice.
10 Dec 2021 - Alert status: MEDIUM
Conti ransomware incidents in Australia
Multiple Australian organisations have been impacted by Conti ransomware in
November and December 2021.
08 Dec 2021 - Alert status: HIGH
Zoho ManageEngine ServiceDesk Plus & Desktop Central remote code execution
vulnerabilities
Vulnerabilities have been identified in certain versions of Zoho ManageEngine
ServiceDesk Plus and Desktop Central product suites. Australian organisations
using vulnerable Zoho ManageEngine products should apply the available patch.
22 Nov 2021
Iranian Government-Sponsored APT Cyber Actors Exploiting Microsoft Exchange and
Fortinet Vulnerabilities in Furtherance of Malicious Activities
Iranian government-sponsored APT actors are actively targeting a broad range of
victims across multiple U.S. critical infrastructure sectors, including the
Transportation Sector and the Healthcare and Public Health Sector, as well as
Australian organizations.
17 Nov 2021 - Alert status: CRITICAL
Iranian Government-Sponsored APT Cyber Actors
FBI and CISA have observed an Iranian government-sponsored APT group that are
exploiting vulnerabilities to gain access to systems. The APT group has
exploited the same Microsoft Exchange vulnerability in Australia.
11 Nov 2021 - Alert status: CRITICAL
Critical vulnerability present in certain versions of Microsoft Excel
Microsoft has identified active exploitation of a vulnerability in Microsoft
Excel. Affected Australian organisations should apply the available security
update as soon as possible.
11 Nov 2021 - Alert status: HIGH
Remote code execution vulnerability present in certain versions of Palo Alto
firewalls utilising the GlobalProtect VPN component
A vulnerability has been identified in certain versions of Palo Alto firewalls
utilising the GlobalProtect VPN component. Affected Australian organisations
should apply the available update as soon as possible.
05 Nov 2021 - Alert status: CRITICAL
Active exploitation of vulnerable Sitecore Experience Platform content
management systems
There is active exploitation of a vulnerability occurring in certain versions
of Sitecore Experience Platform systems. Affected Australian organisation
should apply the available security update.
13 Oct 2021 - Alert status: HIGH
Critical vulnerability present in certain versions of Apple iOS and iPadOS
A vulnerability has been identified in certain Apple products which could allow
an actor to install malware or perform other actions on a vulnerable device.
13 Oct 2021 - Alert status: HIGH
Multiple key vulnerabilities identified in Microsoft products
Multiple key vulnerabilities were identified in Microsoft’s 12 October 2021
patch release. While all vulnerabilities addressed in this release are
important to mitigate the ACSC wishes to highlight several vulnerabilities for
priority consideration.
08 Oct 2021 - Alert status: CRITICAL
Critical vulnerability in certain versions of Apache HTTP Server
A vulnerability exists in Apache HTTP Server 2.4.49. A cyber actor could
exploit this vulnerability to execute arbitrary code. Initial information also
indicates that the vulnerability could also be used perform remote code
execution under certain configurations. Affected Australian organisations
should apply the available patch.
24 Sep 2021 - Alert status: HIGH
Critical vulnerability in ManageEngine ADSelfService Plus exploited by cyber
actors
A vulnerability exists in certain versions of ManageEngine ADSelfService Plus.
A cyber actor could exploit this vulnerability to execute arbitrary code,
potentially enabling the actor to take control of the vulnerable host. Affected
Australian organisations should apply the available security update.
22 Sep 2021 - Alert status: CRITICAL
Critical vulnerability in certain Hikvision products, IP cameras
A critical vulnerability exists in Hikvision products, including IP cameras,
which could allow a cyber actor to take full control of the device. Affected
Australian customers should apply an appropriate firmware update provided by
Hikvision.
16 Sep 2021 - Alert status: CRITICAL
Remote code execution vulnerability present in Open Management Infrastructure,
affects certain Microsoft Azure services
A remote code execution vulnerability exists in Open Management Infrastructure,
a management agent used in certain Linux-based Microsoft Azure services.
Exploitation of this vulnerability could allow a malicious actor to take
control of the vulnerable host. Affected organisations should apply the
available security update.
16 Sep 2021 - Alert status: HIGH
Remote code execution vulnerability present in the Windows Scripting Engine of
Microsoft Windows
A vulnerability exists in a component of Microsoft Windows. A malicious cyber
actor could exploit this vulnerability to execute arbitrary code, potentially
enabling the actor to take control of the vulnerable host. Affected Australian
customers should apply the security update provided by Microsoft.
14 Sep 2021 - Alert status: HIGH
Remote code execution vulnerability present in the MSHTML component of
Microsoft Windows
A vulnerability exists in a component of Microsoft Windows. A malicious cyber
actor could exploit this vulnerability to execute arbitrary code, potentially
enabling the actor to take control of the vulnerable host. At this current time
there is no patch available, affected Australian customers should apply the
Microsoft recommended workarounds.
14 Sep 2021 - Alert status: HIGH
Critical vulnerabilities present in certain versions of Apple iOS, macOS and
Safari
Vulnerabilities have been identified in certain versions of Apple iOS, macOS
and Safari which could allow an actor to install malware or perform other
actions on a vulnerable device or computer.
10 Sep 2021 - Alert status: MEDIUM
Suspected user credentials stolen from FortiNet devices leaked online
A malicious cyber actor has leaked a list of suspected user credentials and IP
address of the associated FortiNet SSL VPN device the credentials are used for.
Organisations should review the patch status and history of internet exposed
FortiNet SSL VPN devices and consider performing a password reset for affected
users.
01 Sep 2021 - Alert status: HIGH
Remote code execution vulnerability present in certain versions of Atlassian
Confluence
A vulnerability exists in certain self-hosted versions of Atlassian Confluence
which could allow a malicious cyber actor to execute arbitrary code. Affected
organisations should apply the available patch to mitigate this vulnerability.
30 Aug 2021 - Alert status: MEDIUM
Property-related business email compromise scams rising in Australia
Cybercriminals are targeting the property and real estate sector to conduct
business email compromise scams. All parties involved in the buying, selling
and leasing of property should be vigilant when communicating via email,
particularly during settlement periods.
27 Aug 2021
2021-009: Malicious actors deploying Gootkit Loader on Australian Networks
From April 2021, the ACSC has received an increase in reporting of malicious
actors targeting Australian networks with Gootkit JavaScript (JS) Loaders.
Open-source reporting confirms that Gootkit JS Loaders are a precursor to
several malware families traditionally used for cybercrime, notably, Gootkit,
REvil ransomware, Kronos, or CobaltStrike. The ACSC is providing this
information to enable organisations to undertake their own risk assessments and
take appropriate actions to secure their systems and networks. The ACSC will
update this advisory if more information becomes available.
27 Aug 2021 - Alert status: MEDIUM
Malicious actors deploying Gootkit Loader on Australian Networks
ACSC has observed an increase of Gootkit JavaScript (JS) Loaders on Australian
networks.
19 Aug 2021 - Alert status: HIGH
Microsoft Exchange ProxyShell Targeting in Australia
The ACSC has observed targeting of the Microsoft Exchange ProxyShell
vulnerability by Malicious actors.
18 Aug 2021 - Alert status: HIGH
Vulnerability Affecting BlackBerry QNX RTOS
BlackBerry has disclosed that its QNX Real Time Operating System is affected by
a BadAlloc vulnerability - CVE-2021-22156. QNX is the world’s most prevalent
real time operating system.
17 Aug 2021
Vulnerability Affecting BlackBerry QNX RTOS
The ACSC is aware of a vulnerability affecting the BlackBerry QNX, the
world’s most prevalent real time operating system.
05 Aug 2021 - Alert status: MEDIUM
LockBit 2.0 ransomware incidents in Australia
ACSC has observed an increase in reporting of LockBit 2.0 ransomware incidents
in Australia.
05 Aug 2021
2021-006: ACSC Ransomware Profile - Lockbit 2.0
The LockBit ransomware restricts access to corporate files and systems by
encrypting them into a locked and unusable format. Victims receive instructions
on how to engage with the offenders after encryption. LockBit affiliates have
successfully deployed ransomware on corporate systems in a variety of countries
and sectors, including Australia, where the ACSC is aware of numerous incidents
since 2020. LockBit affiliates are known to implement the ‘double
extortion’ technique by uploading stolen and sensitive victim information to
their dark web site ‘LockBit 2.0’, and threatening to sell and/or release
this information if their ransom demands are not met.
03 Aug 2021 - Alert status: HIGH
SonicWall devices targeted with ransomware utilising stolen credentials
SonicWall devices are being targeted by a malicious cyber actor as targets for
ransomware. The ACSC is aware of likely related activity targeting Australian
organisations.
12 Jul 2021 - Alert status: HIGH
Kaseya VSA Supply-Chain Ransomware Attack
Patch now available for Kaseya VSA platform.
09 Jul 2021
Advisory 2021-004: Active exploitation of ForgeRock Access Manager / OpenAM
servers
The Australian Signals Directorate’s Australian Cyber Security Centre (ACSC)
has identified targeting and compromise of Australian organisations with
vulnerable internet-accessible servers running ForgeRock Access Manager
(ForgeRock AM). ForgeRock AM was previously known as OpenAM. The ACSC has
observed malicious actors exploiting the vulnerability in ForgeRock AM/OpenAM
to gain initial access to networks in multiple organisations, and facilitate
further access within these networks. On 7 July 2021 the ACSC alerted
organisations that this vulnerability was being actively exploited. This ACSC
advisory provides recommendations for securing ForgeRock AM against
vulnerability CVE-2021-35464, and advice on identifying potential successful
exploitation of this vulnerability.
07 Jul 2021 - Alert status: HIGH
ForgeRock Open AM critical vulnerability
The ACSC has observed active exploitation of a vulnerability in ForgeRock
OpenAM (reported as CVE-2021-35464) against a number of Australian
organisations. The ACSC strongly recommends organisations urgently apply
available patches or workarounds to mitigate the risk of this vulnerability
being exploited.
06 Jul 2021 - Alert status: MEDIUM
Cybercriminals targeting construction companies to conduct email scams
Cybercriminals are targeting construction companies to conduct business email
compromise scams. All parties to construction projects should be vigilant when
emailing about invoices and bank details.
30 Jun 2021 - Alert status: LOW
Microsoft Releases Security Updates for Microsoft Edge Browser
On June 24, 2021 Microsoft released updates for their Edge Browser addressing
two vulnerabilities that an attacker could exploit to inject and execute
malicious code.
21 Jun 2021 - Alert status: HIGH
Google Releases Security Updates for Chrome Browser
On June 17, 2021 Google released Chrome version 91.0.4472.114 for Windows, Mac,
and Linux. The patch notes for this version can be viewed at Chrome Release
Note.
13 May 2021 - Alert status: HIGH
Critical vulnerability discovered in HTTP.SYS in Microsoft Windows
A remote code execution vulnerability could enable a malicious cyber actor to
compromise vulnerable Microsoft Windows hosts. The ACSC strongly recommends
applying available patches.
10 May 2021 - Alert status: HIGH
Multiple high severity vulnerabilities discovered in the Exim mail server
Exim vulnerabilities could enable a malicious cyber actor to compromise
vulnerable Exim servers. The ACSC strongly recommends applying available
patches.
08 May 2021 - Alert status: HIGH
Avaddon Ransomware
Increase in Avaddon ransomware attacks in Australia.
08 May 2021
2021-003: Ongoing campaign using Avaddon Ransomware
The Australian Cyber Security Centre (ACSC) is aware an ongoing ransomware
campaign utilising the Avaddon Ransomware malware. This campaign is actively
targeting Australian organisations in a variety of sectors. This advisory
provides details of Avaddon threat actors, dark web activity, targeted
countries and sectors, the malware infection chain, and known Techniques,
Tools, and Procedures (TTPs). If activity is identified relating to this
advisory please report any findings to the ACSC.
27 Apr 2021 - Alert status: HIGH
Potential exploitation of Click Studio’s PasswordState software
On 24 April 2021, Australian software company Click Studios announced a
compromise of the software update process for their enterprise password
management software PasswordState, used by organisations in Australia and
globally.
